in the search for one of the rarest and
most valuable Commodities in Gaza clean
drinking water it's children who are
carrying most of the burden it's
backbreaking
work but with much of the infrastructure
here destroyed by Israel's bombing this
is one of the only ways to get water
from A to
B we desperately need water to drink and
to maintain basic hygiene as you can see
we don't have enough water to wash our
dishes properly we are using sand to try
to sanitize them but it's not enough
cooking utensils are also contaminated
with sand residue making it difficult to
prepare food
safely the United Nations estimates the
average Palestinian in Gaza is surviving
on 3 lers of water per day for all their
needs that's well below its emergency
standard of 15
L that water is also salty and
contaminated with as much as 70% of the
population drinking straight from
polluted
Wells we're treating salty water for
drinking purposes we actually pay cash
for it and store it in large containers
and then distribute it to the people we
appeal to donors to help us buy water
even if it's salty just provide us with
water not enough water means unsafe
hygiene practices which help the spread
of diseases and across Gaza attempts to
repair the water supply network are held
up because Israel isn't letting in new
pipes it says they could be used as
Weapons 92% of water and sanitation
infrastructure has been completely
obliterated here in canun the lack of
electricity has worsened the crisis with
generators completely
destroyed untreated sewage overflows
into streets and the Sea leeching into
groundwater and Wells contaminating the
water system potentially for generations
to come Bernard Smith Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer